# A rights/legal sections applid to submission to a photo contest run by USARC:

## Rights, Permissions, and Legal Conditions

In submitting an entry, entrants explicitly grant to USARC nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license to use each photograph and description (including the photographers submitted biography and photo credit) in any and all media now known or hereafter created, including but not limited to publication in brochures, blogs, websites, public displays, and presentations. The entrant agrees that the USARC may publish winning or non-winning entries, in its reports, on its internet site, or in any other form or format, and may reproduce and distribute printed versions of the work. Entrants retain other rights to publish and distribute their submitted images. By submitting one or more entries, entrants are attesting that they have created the work, that they own all rights to the work, and consent to use of the submission by the USARC. Entrants also agree that their photos may be used by USARC in future USARC publications and materials (with appropriate attribution and copyright information included). USARC will not use any submitted images for profit, or transfer its rights to submitted images to any third party. If USARC receives a request from a third party to use a submitted image, USARC will refer that party to the entrant.

Entrants agree to release and hold harmless the USARC and its staff from any and all damages, injuries, claims, causes of actions, or losses of any kind resulting from participation in this contest, including infringement of intellectual property rights. The USARC and its staff assume no responsibility or liability for any damages, injuries, claims, causes of actions, or losses of any kind arising in whole or in part from this contest.

USARC is not responsible for any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by the entrant, by any technical error, or by any human error that may occur in the processing of submission to the photo competition, including but not limited to any misprints or typographical errors. USARC assumes no responsibility for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, or alteration of, entries. USARC is not responsible for any problems or technical malfunction of any telephone network or lines, computer equipment, servers, providers, computer on-line systems, software, or failure of email on account of technical problems or traffic congestion on the Internet or at any website, including injury or damage to entrant’s or to any other person’s computer related to or resulting from participating or uploading images or information in the photo contest.

It is the responsibility of the entrant to ensure that any entries have been taken with the permission of the subject. Entrants are responsible for ensuring full compliance with any applicable local, state, national, or international laws and for securing any relevant permits that may be required. Applicable permissions and permits must be made available to USARC upon request.

All federal, state, and local taxes, fees, and surcharges on prizes are the sole responsibility of the prizewinner. In the event that the selected winner of any prize is ineligible or refuses the prize, the prize will be forfeited and USARC, in its sole discretion, may choose whether to award the prize to another winner. Should there be no entries of sufficient quality in a particular category, USARC reserves the right not to award a prize for that category. Likewise, should there be no entries of sufficient quality for the cover of the report, USARC reserves the right not to select an overall winner or to award the corresponding prize.

United States law applies and the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Courts shall prevail.

- See more at: http://www.arctic.gov/photo_contest_rules.html#sthash.ev5xUV9C.dpuf
