---
layout: post
title: Trying out Jekyll
---

h1. {{page.title}}

p(meta). 10 Nov 2010 - Fairbanks

Never content staying with the software I've setup already (radiant, wagn, usemod) I keep exploring new methods of shoving what little content I produce out.   "Jekyll":https://github.com/mojombo/jeykll caught my eye a while ago when GitHub started using it to produce your GitHub account websites.  

* markdown/textile agnostic
* no database back end to setup or maintain (git repo)
* whole structure stored as easy to edit (in vim) text files

Markdown vs. Textile still causes me headaches.  I really need to just pick one and stick with it so I don't have to Google "today's cheat sheet":http://warpedvisions.org/projects/textile-cheat-sheet/ every time I use them.

To get as far as you see here I took liberties using "mojombo's github website":https://github.com/mojombo/mojombo.github.com as a template/tutorial.  Making his template work correctly caused me to setup Google Analytics and learn about the neat "typekit":http://typekit.com fonts thing.  Got myself setup with a free account so I can have my silly header font you see above.

This whole exercise began by looking for a git backed wiki.  git-wiki appears to do this using a Jekyll back end (causing me to level up my Jekyll).  

Now I'm off to see if one of the various git-wiki forks gives me a warm fuzzy.  The following two appear to be actively developed but it hard to tell what the difference is (and why they aren't merging back together again):
* "https://github.com/minad/olelo":https://github.com/minad/olelo
* "https://github.com/geekq/git-wiki":https://github.com/geekq/git-wiki

