---
layout: post
title: sweet fonts
---

h1. Sweet Fonts

p(meta). 13 Nov 2010 - Fairbanks

My custom font provided by "typekit":http://typekit.com pleased me, the little logo in the bottom right corner that showed up there because I'm using the free account not so much.  

This inspired me to get educated as to what is going on here. The super short of it:  TypeKit is providing: font licensing (actually rental), hosting, optimization for browsers (they make it go for IE).

This "zeldman":http://www.zeldman.com guy had some very well written explanations of things:
* "zeldman's love hate affair with typekit":http://www.zeldman.com/2010/03/22/my-lovehate-affair-with-typekit/
* "zeldmans' overview of web fonts and standards":http://www.zeldman.com/2009/08/17/web-fonts-and-standards/

But it wasn't until I ran across Richard Fink's "Web Fonts at the Crossing":http://www.alistapart.com/articles/fonts-at-the-crossing/ that I found the term for what TypeKit was.  A “font hosting and obfuscation” service. 

Finish reading Richard Fink's article and find my gut reaction is not only correct "this isn't the right path for me" but he points out the following warm fuzzys:
* There are thousands of fonts for free (open and legal).
* Google is "hosting":http://code.google.com/webfonts some of them - and providing an "AJAX API":http://code.google.com/apis/libraries/devguide.html#webfont to them
* "FontSquirrel's FontFace generator":http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fontface/generator can take fonts you provide and prep them for usage
* The Google ajax api code here on "GitHub - WebFont Loader":https://github.com/typekit/webfontloader - that must mean it is good stuff right?

The "Google hosted":http://code.google.com/webfonts are simple to get started with using their example code...see my "font import test.":/random/font_import_test.html

In the end, Julie and I sat down and looked through a variety of cool, free fonts available from "fontsquirrel's fontface kits":http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fontface and she picked out a replacement for my TypeKit font I was using.   I made a backup of "trying out jekyll":/random/trying_out_jekyll.html to see the TypeKit stuff in action.

Installation of one of those kits was fairly simple:

* put an unzipped copy of the font in my /fonts directory
* made a copy of stylesheet.css as require.css
* removed extra version of the font I did not plan on using from require.css
* Add the "require.css":/fonts/orbitron/require.css to the header:

bc. <link rel="stylesheet" href="/fonts/orbitron/require.css" 
type="text/css" media="screen, projection" />

* then reference it in my screen.css with:

<pre> font-family: 'OrbitronLight', Arial, sans-serif;</pre>

I am pleased.
