---
layout: post
title: gdal starter
---

h1. {{page.title}}

p(meta). 18 Nov 2010 - Fairbanks (GINA)

This is a work related ramble.

h4. The Problem

I received a pile of GeoTIFFs and MrSid files to showing different processing options available for a dataset.  I need to display these various datasets in both overview and full resolution to select users for feedback.  The collection of files is too large to just put on a USB stick and hand out to 30 or 40 people we want the feedback from (74GB of data). 

h5. Options

* Convert the whole lot of them to KMZ files and offer those out.  Probably will do this no matter what happens.
* Shove each into a seperate layer of a WMS - Good idea!
* WMS -> "Shiv":http://github.com/gina-alaska/shiv -> Google Maps interface - Great idea!

...

h5. Solution(s)

MrSID is awkward to work with - GeoTIFF mmkay thx

{% highlight bash %}
for I in *.sid; do 
  echo $I
  gdal_translate -co compress=DEFLATE -co tiled=YES $I $I.tif 
done
{% endhighlight %}

GeoTIFF optimizations.  Main goals: google projection, internal pyramid overviews built.  But first a just get this AlaskaAlbers (yay for that atleast) GeoTIFFS into a WMS.




Shove into the 900913 projection to avoid reprojection on the fly over head for the target clients (google maps/google earth).  Just so it is clear, my epsg code file (share/proj/epsg) has the following for the "900913 projection":http://spatialreference.org/ref/sr-org/google-projection/ :
{% highlight 
<900913> +proj=merc +a=6378137 +b=6378137 +lat_ts=0.0 +lon_0=0.0 +x_0=0.0 +y_0=0 +k=1.0 +units=m +nadgrids=@@@null +wktext no_defs <>@

{% highlight bash %}

{% endhighlight %}
