---
layout: post
title: node.js quick start
---

h1. {{page.title}}

p(meta). 15 May 2011 - Fairbanks

I wanted to try out some of "substack's":http://github.com/substack crazy stuff.  Here is my quick start guide for "node.js":http://nodejs.org (as he instructed me):

{% highlight bash %}
git clone https://github.com/joyent/node
cd node
./configure --prefix=$HOME/usr  && make  && sudo make install
# I hate having to sudo and trust this stuff
cd /usr/local/
sudo chown -R dayne */node* 
# now to install the node package manager
curl http://npmjs.org/install.sh | sh 
{% endhighlight %}

At this point I've got myself some node fun, with "npm":http://npmjs.org/ to help me install things (like rubygems I guess).  Lets try this new capability out by installing "substack's node-browserify":https://github.com/substack/node-browserify

@npm install -g browserify@

I'm not exactly sure what browserify does yet.  SubStack tells me it _"bundles all your browser-side javascript so you can require() stuff like you can in node plus you can use npm modules in browser code"_.  Which I'm sure makes sense once you've used it.

SubStack also reported browserify works with dnode and he has a handy ruby dnode gem.  Might as well grab "substack's dnode for ruby":https://github.com/substack/dnode-ruby for ruby, so I can dnode things later (I don't know what that means yet):

@gem install dnode@

There we are.  I'm all setup to do node, browserify, and dnode.   We will have to wait for a later date to have an intelligent post on how to use this stuff.

My ending thought after finishing this whole process up is:
"node.js":http://nodejs.org/ needs @nvm@ (an "rvm":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com equivalent)

Finishing thoughts:
@npm install -g jquery-browserify@
@$ = require('jquery-browserify')#  after you@
_jquery-browserify is just jquery packaged up to work with browserify_
