---
layout: post
title: homebrew QGIS with ESRI FileGDB
---

h1. {{page.title}}

p(meta). 10th February 2013 - Fairbanks

h3. Starting scenario  

homebrew already setup on my handsome OSX laptop.  Got QGIS installed via the Kyngchaos packages but it is all sad and randomly pops now and then.  Want QGIS installed via homebrew.  Ready set go.

h3. update homebrew

  @brew update@

  @brew upgrade@

Then go through a few brew installs to fix missing dependancies to achieve updated homebrew setup... it had been a while since I updated my brew.

h3. source blogs

Find this dudes run down:
"http://blog.burhum.com/post/36080548777/getting-qgis-working-on-homebrew":http://blog.burhum.com/post/36080548777/getting-qgis-working-on-homebrew

He links to himself for FileGDB action:
"http://blog.burhum.com/post/34851795066/installing-gdal-ogr-with-filegdb-support-on-osx-with":http://blog.burhum.com/post/34851795066/installing-gdal-ogr-with-filegdb-support-on-osx-with

And from somewhere a tab was open to this:
"http://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/29501/how-to-get-gdb-esri-file-geodatabase-in-qgis-for-mac-osx-10-6":http://gis.stackexchange.com/questions/29501/how-to-get-gdb-esri-file-geodatabase-in-qgis-for-mac-osx-10-6

h3. ESRI FileGDB install time

"http://resources.arcgis.com/node/agreement/3193":http://resources.arcgis.com/node/agreement/3193

*rant* 

_Where you have to login using your ESRI global account to access the download.  Really ESRI? Really?  Stop being dorks and go make your own homebrew, RPM, and .DEB package so people like me don't want to rage at you in our spare happy hacking time._

_And lets not even get started on the EULA - they should have a specific EULA for the filegdb support and not contaminate it with ArcGIS online stream service stuff.  Clean that thing up and really ask themselves why they are restircting access to this thing that lowers the barrier for letting users access their data._

Anyway - downloaded the FileGDB_API_1_2-64.zip

  @unzip -d FileGDB_API_1_2-64 FileGDB_API_1_2-64.zip @

  @mv FileGDB_API_1_2-64 /usr/local/opt@

  @cd /usr/local/include@

  @ln -s ../opt/FileGDB_API_1_2-64/FileGDB_API/include/* .@

  @cd ../lib@

  @ln -s ../opt/FileGDB_API_1_2-64/FileGDB_API/lib/lib* .@

h3. install the GDAL

Now our GDAL can be built with the magic sauce - but I already had it so remove existing gdal:

  @brew uninstall gdal@

  @brew install gdal --enable-unsupported@

h3. tap science for qgis recipie 

  @brew tap homebrew/science@

  @brew install qgis@
